# Welcome to the DataONE Data Management Education Module Repo!

This repository contains DataONE Education Modules that have been updated and
translated from PowerPoint format to a more easily updated format that you can
view in your browser. Each Education Module contains a set of slides with
annotations, as well as a hands on exercise and a one-page explanatory sheet
that distills the main points and lessons to take away. The Education Modules
are intended to be flexible and updated by a range of users and audiences.
Please let us know what you think!

## Guidelines for presenters

### Where to find the material?

A list of the lessons can be found on [the repository's website][website]. The
first page will present you with a list of the available lessons. Clicking on
each lesson will bring you to the lesson page, where you can launch the
presentation, download a PDF, or see the handout and exercices.

[website]: https://dataoneorg.github.io/Education/ "Homepage for the DataONE lessons"

### What material is included?

Each of the DataONE Education Modules is comprised of three parts: a set of
slides with presenter notes, a one-page explanatory sheet, and a hands-on
exercise. These materials are meant to be flexible. They are usable and
adaptable for use in a range of contexts -- for personal education, in classroom
settings, by librarians teaching data management workshops, and more. 

### How does this work?

The slides are provided as HTML documents that you can view and present in your
browser, with or without the annotated notes. Everything should work in recent
versions of the Firefox, Chrome, and Safari browsers. Please note that your
browser needs to allow Javascript.

### Presentation mode

Once the presentation has started, you can change slides by pressing the left
and right arrows, or by swiping left or right on a touch-enabled device.

Once the presentation is started, there are a few features you can use. Pressing
`c` will duplicate the presentation window in a new pop-up window. Your browser
may prompt you to allow or reject this pop-up window. The two windows are in
sync. Pressing `p` will open the presenter mode in the currently focused window.
Presenter mode has a timer, a display of the current and next slides, along with
their notes. Finally, pressing `f` will activate fullscreen for the currently
focused window.

A good workflow for presentations would therefore be to (i) start the
presentation, (ii) press `c` to open a new window, (iii) move the new window to
the screen your audience will see, (iv) press `f` to make it fullscreen, and (v)
press `p` on the version on your screen to see the presenter notes. This will
essentially emulate the behavior of presentation software like PowerPoint,
LibreOffice Impress, or Keynote.

## Guidelines for content editors

We are glad that you want to contribute to the material! You will find more
informations in our [contribution guidelines][CONTRIB].

[CONTRIB]: CONTRIBUTING.md "Contribution guidelines"

## Maintainers

<!-- TODO -->
